Hungarian / Magyar is a really deep and beautiful language 　 .

We have various levels to build words:
- We can build big words like "megszentségteleníthetetlenségeskedéseitekért" from existing words and smart  suffixing and anyone will understand that immediately without ever knowing this word exists (because we do not learn "words" but learn the logic to build them).
- But what if you want to create a word root? Or a new suffix? Or analyse a word - like ask questions for the nature of some word and the object it represents? We also have a system for that! There is this much more deeper layer to our language traced back likely to prehistoric times: What uses a similar consonant structure or skeleton (practically: sounds similar when it comes to it making you "feel" some analogy while hearing or pronouncing) then the two words mean the same. 

Do you know what the latter means? Whenever I say a word I can stop for a while and start thinking. Hmm I know wooow it related to these other words by logic! It literally feels like a discussion you can have!

Of course this second layer is much less widespread known these days to Hungarian people themselves neither, but only 1-2 centuries ago it was much more widespread knowledge with even people like "Táncsics Mihály" writing about it despite not being linguist, but more of a polititian.

For the latter I want to serve some examples. For example "gyerek" and "kölyök" both means kid with more of less the same meaning to it (very slight difference). But this is because if you write them this way "GyeReK" and "KöLyöK" (with capitalizing the consonants) we can turn them to this vowel-skeletons:

Gy-R-K
K-Ly-K

and because we have such a logical writing mode that we literally write always how we pronounce (no such things as this "letter" sometimes sounds like this and sometimes that, but always have how it should sound). We have this scheme where we can easily group together consonant that belong together as pronouncing them makes your brain think of similar feelings / analogies:

1. (B - P) - (V - F)
2. D - T - Ty
3. J - R - L - Ly
4. (K - H) - (G - Gy) - (Dzs)
5. N - M - Ny
6. (S - Sz - Z - Zs) - (Cs - C)

+Foreign symbols (pronounciation-based analysis needed):
X - Y - Q - W

The point is that:
- Vovels does not count much when it comes to the meaning (analyse the meaning)
- One can pretty much change a consonant while keep being in the same group
- One can "double" a consonant or make a double one single - because that just means it is a longer consonant
- Combine the above

^^and if you do this, you either invent a related word that does not exists yet - or find a word that exists and have some very common in its meaning.

Going to back to our example lets just the analysis blindly: you do not even need to know how the letters are pronounced just know a letter is pronounced as-is:

"GyeReK" and "KöLyöK"...

Apply these transformations:
1.) Gy->G->K
2.) R->L->Ly

So they mean similar because... they are pretty much the same.

"Gy" is a complex sound to pronounce, but I am sure you know "G" and "K" and see they are related by biology and the "feel" your brain has when pronouncing them. Likely you have no idea about "Ly", but to understand the concept you can relate to R and L being related or maybe even see babies accidentally mixing them up when they are small and learn to talk. The concept that our language is more or less in line with human biology of speech and the neural activity that speaking itself creates as an analogy. So it is not really just "lets agree that HOUSE means a home where we live", but it is like "ház" (house) is similar to the "-hoz" suffix (to go back for, to go for, bring [back, towards]) or it is similat to "haza" (ones own country he identifies with). There is like a concept from which similar words revolve around - they share similarity in their skeleton and their meaning.

An other example for related words revolving around the same "meaning-core":

KöR (circle) - Gyűrű (ring) - kert (garden) - kar (arm - to hug is for example "átKARol" - környék (area, neighborhood) - keres (search - here it is like: "going around in circles" that is why it is related!) - kereskedelem (trade / commerce) - kürt (horn - a circular tool) - kürtő (chimney) - kerités (fence - it is like saying "circle-ing") - kor (age - like not your age but ages of humanity or bigger periods - earlier was used to seasons too - something circular) - karám (paddock / corral).

Much simpler example: Eső

* "ő" - when alone it means he/she/it in our language. Like "ő elment" = "he went"
* es- esik, = to fall

Practically this very short word says - "it that falls down" and it is what we use for "rain". 　

You might say: "but snow also falls down" - yes. But we say "hó", because it does not fall but slowly go down - which if I want to say is "hull". Practically things that slowly fall we say "falls like a snow". Also the "h" go in beginning of words many times when there is something in the meaning with "heat" - like for example "hő" means "heat" but with an other vowel it means "hű" (cold). Like "hűt" means to cool down something or someone and hűs means reasonably coldly (place).

You might say: but leaves also fall down - especially in the season of a fall! Yes. That is why we call them "levél". If I say it separately "le véle" it literally means "down it with - down it".

Now likely you see I lied that vowels does not count: they convey emotions and feelings - and they convey the soul part of the message of the word. It conveys things like cold or heat - similarly can convey good & bad differences:

iSTeN = God
SáTáN = Satan

^^quite interesting isn't it? S-T-N for both, but in one case we use high-pitch vowels and in the other case we use vowels from the other edge of the spectrum.

One longer example or words related together both by meaning and by the above system of vowels and biology of creating human sound:

 "SzéL" (wind) - "SzáLL" (fly) - "Szó" (word) - "SzáJ" (mouth) - "SzaLaD" (runs fast ["fut" = run], also ending "D" sound is in same group of "T" sound which is sign of past tense too , so it is like "running as fast that it became a wind") - "SzéLed" (szétSZÉLEDTt csoport = group that scatter apart fast; elSZÉLEDT = (he/she/it scatter apart fast), széles (wide - like a wide big plains and lowlands of the "alföld") - szellem (spirit / ghost) - SzeR (sacred alliance - like Ópusztaszer our famous location where we had a "SzeR") - SzeReLem (love - romantic) - Szeretet (love - generic) - szólít (to call [someone]) szerves (organic) - szertartás (ceremony) - SzeRBeNi ("someone who is in an alliance") - SzoLGa (slave - mind that  this is both related to "SzeR" as in the alliance and the "Szól" ("being told") - szerződés (contract) - szerez (aquire, obtain)

And as a final example how this can be used literally as a discussion with "ones own language" - by going back to the original examples of "kölyök" and "gyerek":

What they mean? What is a "kid" (kölyök / gyerek)? K-Ly-K and Gy-R-K!

-> GyeRe Ki (come out)
-> KiJőKe (little who comes out)

Okay lets try some random word: "Ország" (country) - this means "úR-Ság" where "úr" means lord and "-ság" means "-try". etc. etc. etc.

The funny thing is that just excercising this in Hungarian for a while makes one literally be able to find meanings in other languages too just using the similar patterns - it feels like as if people just forgot how to create words and word roots and just started to learn words by themselves - like in a dictionary instead of a system of logic. Of course does not applicable to everything.

I just wanted to add an interesting point of view of a very-very different language that differs not just by its rules and words - but a language which is like a philosophical companion that you can literally ask questions to and it answers then.
It really takes time to use it to the full extent, but it is so surprising - many times it answers what a "woman" (nő) is, what a "man" (férfi) is. Who God is, what is life and language itself tell you all kinds of words that both relate by language (so you can find them) and relate by meaning. It is like playing barchoba, but because of language rules it is automatic and you are discussing with your own culture and heritage while doing so instead of playing with a person 🙂
Better than meditating.. So sad not many people know about this and it is such a small language these days - unlike in its heights centuries and thousands of years ago 🙁
