Images and links are missing here, but it would be too hard to add them. This is just a save from the post here:
https://www.quora.com/How-is-Hungarian-culture-unique/answer/Rich%C3%A1rd-Istv%C3%A1n-Thier

Hungarian culture is unique because of language and special virtues because it is practically the one last nation on face of the earth whose chronicles go back as far as Noé (Noah) and his descendants through Nimród and the Scythians. Sadly all nearly all our brother nations with similar cultural connections got eradicated through history or heavily got to be changed in culture by occupying forces… You can dispute all days how we are related to Scythians, but culturally surely and this is strongly kept through all the centuries.

The language is special, because in this language when something sounds close to an other word they are in most cases close in meaning. This gives a network of meaning between words and while you might consider Hungarian to be a really though language, you will find yourself that many part of your vocabulary gets to you for free, because words are either built out of others, or built by inflexion. On a deeper level one will find that even the word roots are related and you get to keep the meaning if you only change vowels and get a similar meaning word if you change consonants only in their own consonant pronounciation group.

    (B - P) - (V - F): "Pff" sound category (A)
    D - T - Ty: "Bounce" sound category (B)
    J - R - L - Ly - "Tonguework" sound category
    (K - H) - (G - Gy) - (Dzs): "Cough" sound category (C)(D)
    N - M - Ny: "Adhesive" sound category (or nasal) (E)
    (S - Sz - Z - Zs) - (Cs - C): "sssss like a wind" voice category (F)
    X - Y - Q - W: "foreign" symbols (try using the pronounciation)

This is why “kölyök” and “gyerek” both means a “child”. You can see that K-G are in the same group and Ly-L-R are in the same too. Actually if you go to places around Szeged you will find people saying “Györök” and that is just as much acceptable as the “official” form - only if not more ancient.

I wanted to give this example, because even among Hungarians only those close to research (or those who are interested in old things) will tell you this deeper level, but what about the other parts of word construction?

“Kovács”

This is our word for “Smith” for example and also used as a name. This is however not “just a word in the dictionary” that you know its meaning because you have learned it, but there is a semantic structure in the word itself that “talks to you”. If you say its other form “Kovás” you will see this more clearly. Kova is the word that we use for the materian you can make fire with. The -os, -es, -ás and similar ending suffixes are used to tell that a man is using something or having something (see Asztalos = Tishler, from the word Asztal). This is how Kova-ás becomes Kovács and you can even see that cs-s is in the same pronounciation group (but you do not need to know the above table to see this).

So we know that a Smith or Kovács is “the person who has the tools to make fire” or “uses the things to make fire”. But can we dig deeper here? Yes we can! “Kova” is itself a word that is talking to you. It is K+V and consonants does not count that much except for being high pitch or low and emotional effects. This is why you should write these as KoVa when doing an analysis.

To look at what the “K” part stands for go for the smallest words that came to your mind which has it in its beginning or in a similar combination. In this case it is “Kő” that means “stone” or “rock”. Look at where “V” appears in the beginning of old words to get “Varázs” for example. This latter means “wizardry”. Interesting. Is it a “magic stone that makes fire” maybe? We can see this connection even further if the word “Parázs” comes to your mind! This is the word that we use for the stones that glow after the fire is out and you can reignite the fire with it.

There are countless examples of these and to be honest there are some words in nearby countries that they do not seem to understand but we can still understand through this logic even if we officially not have that word in the Hungarian dictionary. In any ways the Magyar language is not only really old, but it can answer your questions. It is not just a language in which you learn what is what, but a language that you can ask questions like “what is a smith” and it will answer you. Its answer will be not direct, but first a tree of other words from which the word grew out and then if you get to the roots of this tree you can even ask the language “what are the similar or related things in the universe?”

Be warned that you not only get positive relatedness. You can see iSTeN and SáTáN for example that means God and Evil or “éL” against the word “öL” which means life and killing or “áLl” against “üLl” which are sitting and standing… Of course one should be blind not to see the connection here too, just I wanted to warn how connectedness can be. This is when the emotional part of consonants come into play. In any ways, in this language words are not something that you just agree on and remember, but they form a logical network of meaning - except for the latest times imported terms…

There are other really interesting properties of our language like not differentiating the language terms because of gender at all, or the property that you can practically talk without a strict word order and still get completely good sentences - except if one word directly relies on the other like “this strong men” in which case you of course can only move them together and subcases like this.

We can start talking about our special and unique mythology here and connect it with language immediately so I will try to make a logical stream here. Our chronicles have our own version of the story about the tower of Bábel in which it was built originally as a shelter for people to survive the “next big coming of water” (shortened to just “flood” by some). In this story the original goal is noble and it is not implied Nimród had its idea, but surely he was there at the building. It is worth noting though that the writing explicitly says “when Nimród saw that the languages start to get confused so even relatives start to not understand each other soon, he immediately went to the east to the land of Eviláth with all his family and that is where he had Hunor and Magor among other sons who still live around there”. Interesting that according to this tale, he did not wait until the confusion of languages is finished… Later Hunor and Magor (or Magyar) went to the Meótisz while hunting the wonderstag and mated with “Tündér” girls. Btw this word roughly translatable to fairy - but TűNni means to disappear so the word tells these creatures are easily disappearing right after you sight them and TüNdöklés means shining so they likely also shine. Also words like “Tűnődés” means wondering or reflection and “TeNGeR” is sea or ocean but were used for other kind of waters likely too earlier because of its shiny surface that seemed everslastingly big. From this “TeN-” word root you can get really far, but I have already talked about that in my earlier posts where I asked my language what the name of “God” means in our language. There I did not even realized this connection of being “TüNdöklő” so I really take it seriously that the language literally “speaks to you”. You talk and whenever you say something you get some hidden meaning. As I already told you, our word for “God” is “iSTeN” or “öSTeN”. The “Ős” word means ancient as if it is the most ancient thing or the first being in the universe and TeN both relate it to the everywhere-ness of seas and the shinyness, intangibleness here. It is the mystic first ever existing source of the whole universe with its shining light. We also call him “Arany Atyácska” in our mythology. Arany means gold and atya is father while the ending makes it personal and playful as if we talk about someone who is really close to us - like our most beloved one or as if you talk to a kid you love.

So archeology and history both shows that Hungarians or Magyars were having monotheism, but it is worth noting that many of the Árpád’s Magyars around 896 were already having some form of Christianity too because the abundance of “breast-worn crosses” which were of different style that of used by Europe at the time and were not mass-produced so it could not have been imported by western or southern churches preachers. Szent Gellért also talks about Hungarians already being Christian alongside that “they do not persecute manicheists, but persecute those who want to persecute manicheists” and similar things. Pretty interesting is also that we have a special connection with Holy Mary that we equate to “Boldogasszony” (“happy” woman - but we use the same term for what the church calls “beatificatio” and is much more deeper how english uses the word happyness!) from our myths. Also both of them deeply are connected with the moon and motherness. Alongside this kings of ours wore the cross of apostles and a title of an apostle-king. This is the meaning behind double cross in our original coat of arms you will find in later-grown nations coats of arms too (like Slovakia and Serbia). Also worth noting that the double-cross is a sign in our old Scythian-Székely-Magyar runes equating to the letter “gy”. Our old alphabets really worth a different post but it must be told here that the usage of the alphabet really use compression in many ways. One is that you can leave out consonants easily (or write them if you want) but an even more weird is that you can literally attach two or more (!) letters to each other to shorten the text. Imagine this as if you would want to write “AKI” in the modern latin alphabet and you would write the two lines of the K letter being grown out of the right to-to-bottom line of the A letter instead of writing the whole letter out. If you have time for it, you should also look at how our old alphabets like the Székely-Magyar alphabet is. These were carved into wood originally so it was really practical to spare both carving time and space on the wood so we have used these extra tricks ;-). Oh and sometimes the very short, one-consonant old words could be written with just one symbol, like in case of the double-cross. This way it means “eGY” which translate to “(the) one”.

An other interesting part of our mythology is the tale of “Szépmező Szárnya”. His name literally means: Wings of the beautiful meadow. It is a really old tale and survived in many forms, but in practically all of them he is a hero, fighting for others and good deeds and is the smallest kid among three children of the old king “Puszta” (You can try to translate him as “king steppe”). The two other oldest kids of his was “Széptüzek Lángja” (flames of the beautiful fire - who was a smith they tell) and Jószél fúvása (blowing of the good wind). He always fights evil and has this dream prophecy about the “last golden corner of the world” or “a világ rámájának aranyos szegelete” that all Scythians were searching and even Hunor and Magor was searching for - except they saw that wonderstag or wonder-deer that they wanted to hunt because it was not only white but all shining and had the stars between his horns / antlers. This part of the tale talks about a place that will be the last golden-era place in the world. The place where golden age will keep existing even in times of biggest dangers. Later when it is revealed this place is the Carpathian basin all Scythian-Jazig (Jász)-Hun-Magyar-nomadic efforts centered around keeping this area, but this comes much later. Szépmező szárnya is really a central figure in our myths and as the last and youngest kid he is really an example of a “Táltos” - the figure in our mythology similar to a Shaman or Mágus - but one who does not need to use anything or get to specific states however can act when its needed and only ride his “Táltos-horse”. It is worth noting that likely Mágus is also a Hungarian word from the word root “Mag” or “seed” and formed as Mag-os that means “those with seeds (to plant)” or “seeder”, while also meaning “hight or height” like the way Magas or Magos still used today. The word “Táltos” is related to the words “Telj”, “Teljesség”, “Teltes” or “Töltős”. This means you are “complete” or you can even give so much “complete” and full you are. In later medieval times tradition was that the seventh son or children with extra teeth, extra hair, or even sixth fingers or similar extras were considered to be really born táltos-possibles. You need to be born to be a Táltos and you have mission on earth, but even those who are not born to be Táltos can grow themselves to be “Garabonciás”. This latter word seems to be related to “Garral” (Nagy garral jön - “with awful lot (strenght) it comes”) or GuRul (rolls) and of course the K-R word root meaning of circularity. These two figures are really similar but one borns like that and the other learns how to be like that and always have a book with him that only he should read. Old tales tell bad things about people who read into their books and find themselves very far from their village and such. It is worth noting that according to sources on Hungarian medieval inquisition (which was nowhere as bloody as other!) we also used the term “Mágus” directly too, for an umbrella term. In any ways the Táltos and the good figures always need to fight for truth and goodness with the evil figures - not only for them, but many times fighting for their people, their nation too or for whole humanity. His most common aid in his journey are the “Táltosló” which is the “táltoshorse” or just “táltos” (shortened - this word alone can both mean the special horse and the person too). With this special horse you just jump once and you are already on the moon or the sun, but if you jump twice you are already in the “Fiastyúk” (pleiades) and just jump three times and you are travelling faster than the thought and can reach the middle of the universe with specific places like the silver forest, golden forest, their inhabitants and even the palace of Arany Atyácska - God himself! In some tales the job of the táltos is to be there in really specific and thin moments - when two trees reach out and meet each other and you can walk through - and if he misses that there will be hundreths or thousands of years of waiting until the next possibility appears. Many times the tales are full of symbolism mixed with knowledge of astronomy and the stars and the meaning of them. The horse for example can symbolize the “nation” many times. Or the culture and history of your nation. Without knowing these and that the “horse” means this much to a Hungarian tale foreign people misinterpret parts of tales easily - for example they do not understand how can ones horse be sadly kept nearly dying under a pile of poop in the tar-pit or similar places yet the hero when given opportunity to get a shiny best looking horse keeps asking for the old and miserable one who will then become the best Táltos in the whole universe. Without seeing what symbol this is, many people might think “oh how brutal the tale is”. When knowing the symbols meanings you will see it is not what you think - then realize it is even more brutal. The bad figures in the tales are abundant and nearly always more powerful than the hero - the hero being fighting practically against the tides of times and only wins through “Magic”. This is why we are called “Magyar” or “Magor” however! I think many of you already saw this coming for the meaning of our nations name ;-). Always overwhelmed but always fight against the odds - just like in the tales our heroes and Szépmező szárnya…

And in our mythology you can see many powerful bad figures to fight against in the tales like the “Sárkány” (dragon - who is however seemingly have human properties as he can ride a horse for example, his name also starts with “Sár” which means “mud” so you can tell he is an “earthly” or “muddy”, maybe you can say “materialist” figure) and “Ármány” and “Lúdvérc” who are main evils. Interestingly accoding to one tale, the evil has born when God was walking around in its then-new creation and he started to feel really weird and then he had to spit and this evil creature have appeared. Lúdvérc is also called “Lüdérc” and “Lidérc” and is the evil part of the “Tündér” and in most cases you can meet him as a glowing sphere with bad intentions except when you meet him in other forms like a transformed black chicken-like creature and so on… The word “Ármány” literally means “intrique” or “cabal” itself but you can dig deep and understand how “Úr-mány” (Úr, being powerful, lord etc. and -mány still a proper inflexion) can mean he wants to be the lord want to rule and wants power all the way. Also in our tales there is the “Boszorkány” who is a witch and more considered dangerous than purely evil to be honest .but we still think evil in most cases, however the hero nearly always have to meet her (always female) as she guards key resources and the hero can even serve her but not in bad ways, just keeping order in the house or feeding horses and similar things… Her name implies many things, from relations to “Bosszú” (revenge) through being “Bősz” (angry like a red-faced shouting man) to “Bős” and “Bőséges” which means richness, having a lot, having a lot of crops, results from harvest, or anything that is necessary for life. In rare tales a “Tündér” (the fairy like thing I mention) can she transform to when someone likes her, but in most cases a really dangerous figure who however is a necessary point of the journey many times. It is more a more-than-healthy confused person than a purely evil one if you pay attention but she tends to be evil on most cases. Oh and you need to call him “Öreganyám” (oldmother) otherwise you will be in big-big trouble. At least she herself tells that it is your luck you gave the old respect when greeting her.

If you read into our tales and myths you will find an abundance of similar stories which are well detailed and colorful. Of course you will also find smart princesses and female heroes just as well being a Scythian culture nation in which genders always had a reasonable amount of equality in value but never equality as in homogenity ;-).

This channel is good for Hungarian speaking people to get a glimpse of the tales and mythology, but there are much more: Hungarian Folk Tales

Then there are also tales and mythology from the Medieval ages and not only tales, but heroic depiction of battles, romance, love, national identity and heroism in general. Our culture is more deep than most people would expect I think and even more unique than those might think who only see the surface.

From this follows a long history, great art and beautiful poetry! Our history is full of Heroism and “always fighting against the odds” in the way that even defeats are victories because how valiant we have fought and how that formed the next and later generations and how it gave a sense of meaning. Architecture, wine regions, foods, paintings, novels and a really unique and special music too… all of these have grown out from the above.

My message already grows exceptionally long here, but just get a glimpse on big battles and heroic history here:

On the siege of Eger we also have a nice and good movie based on an old novel “Egri Csillagok”. I think maybe it has translations to other languages.

Just get a glimpse on the architecture and palaces by searching traditional Hungarian architecture (basilicas, Eszterházi palace and other palaces, ) - or you can even look for recent works of Makovecz and his aquintances for modern-yet-traditional architecture from current modern times (like the Stephaneum Catholic university building in Piliscsaba).

The Hungarian parliament is also really beautiful, just look here:

We have a lot of these nice buildings and statues everywhere on homes. Not only in the capital city.

To see how people lived in late medieval and later village times you should also visit Hollókő (officially still a village where people live everyday lives) the “Őrség” area:

Or at least various “skanzen”s like the one in Szentendre:

You can go with the small train if you are there:

Do not forget to visit Hungarian places in nearby countries not belong to Hungary anymore - like in Upper-hungary (slovakia), Transylvania (now part of Romania) and Voivodia and Carphathia (under Serbian and Ukrainen rule). Most people still speak Hungarian there despite all the assimilation and the culture is everywhere too - like the old castle of Hunyad and other beautiful places!

Be sure to visit wine regions because they are on-par with France and are unique in wine varieties. You can find both good red and white wine regions and some who has both. Tokaj is maybe the most renown one, but visit the “Szépasszonyok völgye” in Eger (valled of beautiful woman) or the wine cellars of Villány and the old and never active volcano of the Badacsony. They all have great culture, foods and in the nearby you will also see cultural or bathing places.

If you are already at Badacsony, you should try bathing in our biggest lake Balaton too! It has friendly beaches and no rocks like many seas and really good for children and family vacations - just as well as going to there with friends. Best time is around July because summer is really hot for outside swimming. An other good thing to mention is various activities like going through our rivers and other big lakes like the “Tisza-tó” lake with boats and canoes or similar things and tour like that if you are this kind of person. At Balaton you should use bikes too because it has awsome bike-only roads all around the lake. Some other places are also good for this, but Balaton must be mentioned for this too.

There is an event in which you can swim trough the lake, but beware it is 5.2km in width and more than hundred in length:

^^As you can see this place is pretty good for sailing and windsurfing too and everywhere you will find culture and wines around it practically - especially on the north side, but basically on both sides.

In Tihany you will also find places like the “barátlakások”:

which were religious and holy places. The nature is also beautiful. The mountains are not big in current Hungary (big in Transylvania and Székely-land where Scythian / Székely Hungarians live though) but our mountains are really old and the variety of plants and animals are really high while most of the things are quite friendly! Practically the whole area of todays Hungary is free from lethal snakes or even slightly dangerous ones and most kids can easily grow up alone running around and playing in the forest - and climbing the biggest hill in the area and picking flower. Also a lot of things grow very well and the land is really rich in soil / fertility.

You can also go and visit not only forests and small mountains but the Hungarian “alföld” and “Hortobágy” ~lowland which is really special both naturally and its culture too:

^^Yes… he stands on the horses while going with them. This was a fantasy of an old writer and Hungarians read it and did it haha :-)

If you want to generally see horse-related things and in the capital city, I advise you to go for the traditional festival and horse racing in the capital city, the “Nemzeti vágta”. In this even historical plays happen as much as a big competition of villages riders who send them with their horses to see who will win this year - fullblood english horses are prohibited on this competition and anyone can come - even from Transylvania and parts of Historical Hungary, but nowadays also people from foreign countries who have their own international race seperately. Also good foods, manufacture and cultural heritage is everywhere in this time around the heroes square!

^^Yes they can unmount and run near the horse and remount and such - a whole school for doing these tricks and competition too ;-). We have written accounts of people doing these kind of things historically too. Oh and yes this is one of the main squares of the capital city that we prepare for the event so the racing track only exists for these days (but we have a “normal” centuries old official racing track too if you are into that kind of things and it has good events like foodtruck shows and similar things!)

If you want to see an earlier style steppe high-culture nomadic event you can also visit “Kurultáj” or the “Ősök napja” (day of ancients):

^^This event is usually near “Bugac” and when it is a real Kurultáj, other nomadic nations are coming too. Otherwise it is a local event in the other years.

You can also visit the museum and place of “Ópusztaszer”:

Here you not only can see old nomadic high-culture museum and events, but also a big 360° painting about Árpád and the sevent tribes reconquering Pannonia and their incoming:

Btw it is worthy to take some notes on the word and name of “Ópusztaszer”:

    Ó-Puszta-Szer is how you seperate it down
    Ó: this means really ancient-ness
    puszta: as you can see from my above writing this means steppe and also is the name of the mythical king in myths who is father of Szépmező Szárnya too.
    Szer: this means a form of sacred alliance. Our word for “love” (szeretet and Szerelem - latter when intimate love or religious Godly one) actually stems from this root too. A “szer” is different from a “szövetség” that we use for simple alliances (szövet means textile that is worked intogether) as in case of a szer, we did make a blood covenant or at least felt like as we did. The way for doing this is to cut your arms or somewhere and let your blood get into a bowl OR a drinking horn (SzaRV / SzaRu - this is likely where the word SzeR relates to if you have followed my stories about language above) and get it mixed with wine and drink it. When Árpád and Magyars came to reclaim lands of Atilla the seven tribes made an old Scythian-style blood coventant and this is well described in written accounts. Only Scythian nations recorded this in this way btw and we have the last written account for such - it is a sad thing the custom for it died out it seems. According to some theories this was the place for the event - but it is unlikely though. It seems this was a place maybe however for an other “szer” that have happened after the reconquest and ceremonically divided the land became between families and the seven tribes.

Oh and how we are related to Huns? As you can read much above, Nimród had Hunor and Magor or Magyar as sons. When Huns with Atilla went on to defend the golden corner when it was dangered from Rome and its policy most Magyars stayed back as reserve - we always try to have reserves. Atilla’s campaigns made Rome fall not far afterwars, but after his death the Huns were seperated between two factions - one supported by foreign forces and one only by Hungarians - mostly between infighting of sons caused by ones wife turning one against the others with help of Germanic tribes. The losses were great and despite the smallest child that Atilla loved most have defeated, barely they have won and Huns became really weakened so basically both sides lost - in some versions Csaba won by a margin or in a second decisive battle. When Atilla was still living a prophecy was told to him that only the smallest child the “Csaba” will keep his kingdom and lineage so he liked him the most. The term “Csaba” is likely a title actually but we also use it as a name after this so it might be confusing as in our myths and tales he is called Csaba, but in other sources they will call him by his name but the story is the same. Our chronicle tells “German tribes chronicles not talk about this event because despite their side can claim victory so many of them got lost in this battle that they fear to even write it down”. In any ways. the Empire of the Huns - which was unlike Rome and other empires and did not try to Hunnize inhabitants strongly against will and did not want to homogenize - was history and tribes in the former union went onward on their own paths leading by themselves and slowly finishing off the Roman Empire - thus ending old-school slavery in europe and the big unification of people, but also giving birth to first few centuries of dark ages in which warring and claiming to be the leaders of “rome” despite it did not exists anymore was slowly later giving painful birth of todays Europe and the medieval ages and later times as we know.

Csaba first run south but 3000 nobleman riders stayed in Transylvania where they have dig in themselves in castles and started saying themselves to be “Székely” - those who sit / settle (in waiting) and they will await Csaba to come back and regain what is lost. They still live there and are the most ancient Hungarians still keeping their special and unique Hungarian-ness in Transylvania in big numbers. Go to the “Búcsú” of “Csíksomlyó” to meet them and their lovely culture as it is worth it:

^^Yes. Hundreths of thousands people on this mountain holy place even in this rainy weather you see here. Usually though they get nice weather and the whole is worth celebrating together with them. In the village you can buy old style historical manufactured things, good foods and it is a really positive energy in the place all around. This year the pope was here too, but one week earlier than the event should be so many people (maybe most?) came to the second in bigger numbers “how it should be”, but of course both must have been awsome.

You can also go to Gyimesbükk not long after the Csíksomlyó event where our “one thousand years old original border stones” and the last train station of land of Historical Hungary are:

A train comes from the mainland Hungary every year and local people all wait for them to arrive and meet (of course the train is much bigger but only its motor can go as far as this place). This event is in Transylvania.

Oh and if you are wondering what the words “Turul” written in our runes in the beginning of this video means, it is our historical mythological bird the “Turulmadár” (Turul-bird) or “Túlról-madár” bird. If I once again go into the meaning of its name you will see that it is a bird (madár) that is from the “other side” (túl-ról: -ról means from and túl- means the other side here, like transdanubia is called “dunán-túl” and if you pick up something from the table we say “felvettem az asztal-ról). The extra consonant appears because L and R sounds are in the same consonant group and you can both add and remove nearby ones as long as you do not cross boundaries of consonant-groups. This is not artificial, if you pronounce it you will feel that pronouncing “túlról” will lead to a “Turul” pronounciation. This bird appears in our myths multiple times and its real-word living animal is likely the “Kerecseny” that still has the name of the Kworezm area in its name. Knowing that in the winter solstice we have had ritual flight-makings of Falcons (this is a Hungarian well renown falcon variety) one can also see this is that word Hungarians still use for Christmas: Karácsony. This bird came with us, because it helps hunting and we did bring it with us all through the steppes from Kwarezm to here. It does not live elsewhere at all as far as I know, except between its original place and Hungary and through this road.

We had many big statues of this bird who was there when “Álmos” (dreamer) had his dream where the Golden corner is and that his mom was visited by this bird too telling he will be the one who will show Hungarians where to reclaim Atilla’s land and the golden corner. One of these big statues have remained - despite Soviets wanted to destroy it- in Tatabánya. Miners had fought for it to stay and the state saw there will be no workforce if the state police beats them and they will not go away the statue got kept.

Sadly Tatabánya is an industrial city otherwise, so you better visit Tata and its castle and the lake if you are in the area then go for the nearby Esztergom for its castle and Basilica. That is close to where I live so you can even visit me haha and when my “búbos kemence” fireplace is completed you can rely on its heat and even get a nice “rakott krumpli” or other awsome foods from an authentic fireplace.

And talking about food there is a lot to eat in Hungary. My girlfriend who is not Hungarian tells me she ate best food in Hungarian places all in her lifetime! Practically all historical places and wine regions have good food and I advise you to search for places that look and feel like a “csárda” and is named like such. They tend to have quality historically Hungarian food and are scattered along the countryside everywhere.

A csárda should look like this:

and in the inside:

And the food similar like this:

And even better and better… We have a lot of foods and I have already answered about them on quora.

Also do not forget to buy traditional meat and “Kolbász” from those who really have animals and make it:

You will get real “wursts” like this in practically whole central europe but it seems other parts of the world maybe forget how to do it really well. So despite it is not a Hungarian thing only to get “real food” when it comes to ingredients, but here it is still pretty normal so despite there are other places for it, if you are alredy here, you better off buying this to go home with.

Oh and buy and drink “Pálinka” not only wine! Traditional Hungarian long-drink made from fruits only. Of course neighboring countries make Schnaps or Rakija many times in a similar way, but a really good Pálinka is strong and tasty. My friend makes good Pálinka but I make wine and we exchange. In any ways practically many people make it at home so you do not only need to buy it. The home made ones are either extra strong or extra good in flavour. Some prefer it to be “kerités-szaggató” (garden-fence destroying - haha) but me and my friend prefer it to be aromatic. There are places that serve only quality “pálinka” and stalls that serve only quality pálinka on events so even if you once drank a “kerités-szaggató” you should try an other one if you have a bad memory and don’t like too strong drinks. The aromatic ones are strong too, but they do not ignite your throat on fire and you literally feel all the taste of plum or apricot or any kind of fruit it is made out of.

An example brand (if you really want to buy in shops): Panyolai Pálinkák

You better buy it from those who make it personally though in case of events from stalls in my opinion or from the manufacture sight personally. If you buy it look if it says “Pálinka” on it because only those who make it according the traditions can use the word, while people who party out with you maybe will call other things “pálinka” too if you choose to go out with the wrong kind of people. Go and take those who take care of the quality and you will like it ;-).

Oh and one more thing: hot baths!

You should seriously visit them! They are all around the country and no other country have so many natual hot water springs like Hungary maybe! Some of these are really old (older than Turkish times, go back to Roman occupation of Pannonia or even earlier) and you can even bath in a hot lake under the sun and it is good even in the winter!

Some places worth mentioning are…

Komárom:

Hévíz (this is one lke you can swim in):

Miskolctapolca:

Demjén:

Hajdúszoboszló:

And of course you will meet hot baths also in the capital city of Budapest:

… and we are only scratching the surface of Hungarian hot baths with health-benefit water, massage and so on. We call these places hot baths instead of wellness in most cases as we have natural hot water with minerals while many foreign places just “create” hot water. We do not need to do son in Hungary!

Oh and literature and other arts are also really high level, but for literature you better speak and read Hungarian well. There are some works that got translated though. One of my personal favourites got translated for example from Jókai Mór:

Magyar Elektronikus Könyvtár (MEK)

^^You can download the two volumes here for free. I highly advise to read this story as I think its language was not that hard to translate but the unique story worths a reading. Not only it worths a reading but it will shed a light on unique properties of the Hungarian culture!

We can write this message a lot longer, but here is the place to stop otherwise there will be no other places. We also have awsome cartoons like “Vuk” and the famous “Macskafogó” and “Mézga család” among others and some good movies like “Tanú” for example just to name a few later kind of cultural elements.

I hope there will be at least a few people who read through all my message and get to this point, but in todays world where everyone runs I have no idea if my hope is real or not. At least I have tried my best to collect all of this…

Oh and music just cannot be skipped! Folk music with violins, cimbalom, citera and other instruments are really awsome - while also awsome is classical and modern music!

Just some examples of various kinds folk music:

^^this pipe is not the Scottish one, but the Hungarian pipe!

You can look for the youtube channel of “Fölszállott a páva” to see more of this and more folklore culture and dances and music: Fölszállott a Páva

I also like Vágtázó Csodaszarvas that tries to capture strenght and power of old nomadic music merged together with old myths and tales:

Okay… I am pretty sure most people not go this far and those who go might maybe like what they see and hear and read. I still have some hope there will be people who read this far and maybe even share it with others so in the end I have to write down one more thing that is key to Hungarian culture: always fighting against Homogenization of humanity, empires and fighting for existence of nation states. This is what all Scythian-related alliances ever seem to have existed for from fighting against unifying forces in the early middle east, Empires like Rome or others who tried to form everyone to their shape. We will do the same until the end of times and even if we will go extict we will still have hope. Because we are seeds, “Mag-úr”s and let just one seed ever survive and the whole tree nation will grow out of it once again even if once really Humanity will be a rootless homogen mass… Then some people will find the seeds of ours and want to be Hungarian and they can be because blood does not count: there is a saying that not those are Hungarians who have born to be Hungarian, but those whose children and grandchildren will be Hungarian and Magyar. And if they succeed maybe they will help finding all other nations seeds. There is no way humanity should lose its nations and identities and we will fight against the biggest forces wanting this eraseal again and again. Not only for us but for humanity - and anyone is welcome in this mission and just like in the old times when fighting against Rome and other empires you can keep your own cultures as much as you can join our ranks. Now that my long message have made most shallow people already leave I hope those who read this are those I intend my words toward - this is Magic: planting seeds that grow to be trees and plant further seeds - this is what makes empires fall, great powers crumble to the sea and it all starts with very few words and actions. This is how a big forest appears from a small seed once falling on the ground - and this is magic in its purest form and we know it well that Magic is not wizardry, it works and is powerful - even in the XXIth century.
