1978… Akadémia… this is from the communist era and still full of suspicious errors.
Let’s just take on some examples:
1. “Visegrád”.
 This is surely related to “
vise
” which means height or highness in some slavic languages and you will need to be blind to not see 
grád
. From this you might conclude this is all you can get out from it and there is nothing else in the original name until you dig deeper.
I am telling you this one first, because this one will lead to us being closer instead of fighting more. For real meaning and ancient etymology of words, you better leave out non-consonants. This is well known fact. Most old languages (like our runes, but also Semitic languages and sumerian and all old stuff) leave it out anyways. For consonants you have groups that which you pronounce really similarly.
The sounds categories (this is just one version):
(B - P) - (V - F): "Pff" sound category (A)
D - T - Ty: "Bounce" sound category (B)
J - R - L - Ly - "Tonguework" sound category
(K - H) - (G - Gy) - (Dzs): "Cough" sound category (C)(D)
N - M - Ny: "Adhesive" sound category (or nasal) (E)
(S - Sz - Z - Zs) - (Cs - C): "sssss like a wind" voice category (F)
X - Y - Q - W: "foreign" symbols (try using the pronounciation)
Just some words now:
Fő: boiling, “main”, under cooking, being heated a lot
Fel: upwards
Felhő: cloud (“heat-upwards”)
Forr: boiling
Forró: hot
Fent: up, over
Fenn: being up
forrás: spring (a water spring), or source (of something)
fal: wall
fal: eat-
up
 something fastly
fösvény: miser (only pays for what mainly counts)
fej: head
fő: “head”, as in headcount for example
Bál / bálvány: old religious ritual person-name / idol
These are all Hungarian and the connection among them is still visible to the everyday naked eye. The reason why I tell them here is that you see examples in which all of these words mean something related to “up” or “up direction” or similar. I do not know if you can also feel it, but for a Hungarian one can also feel it.
From these examples you see that “F” when stands alone already has a meaning. When it means heavy heating of some fluid that is surely connected with the up direction, but when it means “main” we also relate to the upwards direction. We also use this word for “head”. Not literally “head” as that is “fej”. If we ask “what is the main thing to do?”, in Hungarian we ask “what is the upwards thing to do?” - as if the main thing is the one that is the heavenly thing.
F-L and F-R are closely related to boiling, in which the boiled content flies upwards. As you can see the “R” and “L” sounds are in the same consonant-group (or consonant pronounciation group) so it is highly a visible connection. If you ever saw a small children trying to say “R” and (s)he cannot do it yet, you will understand these groups. These are grouped together because of the way your phonetic instruments are acting in your mouth and throat are similar to each in these groups. Basically if you freely exchange consonants only in their groups, completely freely exchange non-consonants and even double or singletonize consonants in the same group (if there is an R, you can imagine R+L and L+R there but not R+M there) and apply these rules, you always end up with kind of similar words in meaning. At least this happens in Hungarian. You can literally draw very-very big graphs with similar meaning. This is universal and seems to go back to the times when we had much fewer languages so every language has some of this now, but most have forgotten this way of building related words through both semantic and phonetic connections. This is the most prevalent in Hungarian and related languages. It has been kept most intact here, but to be honest I think Slavic languages are among those in the indo-europian ones that kept this a bit too. You can try and play with this out of fun while you are speaking. I do speak some slavic language (not a Slovakian though) and I see it SOMETIMES partially works, but it is hard to find 20+ jump long meaningful connections between words like one can do here easily. In any ways, some other languages nearly completely forgot this already.
Okay, go back to some example you will also understand likely:
vri, vari - isn’t this also meaning to cook or boil in Czech?
bolliere - isn’t this what “boiling” got out from? (Latin)
boil - this is modern English
wall - same as “fal” in my languge but in English
vise - Slavic
Visoko - Place name
Visegrad - Place name
etc.
Interestingly in Hungarian we use “Víz” for water. Of course the water comes up from the springs when gets to be a bigger quantity, but it is interesting that pronounciation groups links this with the upness, instead of something else. Despite this, most language also start the word with the “W” sound and continue with a different second consonant (sometimes not even the same group) so I would still consider this to be meaningful to see - like in: “VíZ, VoDa, WaSseR, WaTeR, etc.”
So in the above, you can see the V-B-F changes as much as the L-R changes. See the above table of consonant groups. I hope you also see the correspondance in the meaning. We see this every day while speaking Hungarian as it is everywhere and you do not need to be a linguist to constantly stumble upon these connections. All I did is that I have applied the underlying unwritten (okay it is written, but this is below usual grammer) language rules for the foreign languages too and it kind of still works in many cases - except that connections break away after a while.
Okay so far. So if you say “Visegrád” I would say “Fellegvár” in modern Hungarian, but what about the grad? Do we have more deep connections here?
Look at the place name of “Győr”, which is now surely thought to be of Avar origin and there is a written account on Árpád’s Hungarians keeping an Avar name in this situation and the writing even says what it means in the language of Avar people: Ring. Also the name was this because the city had walls around it. It was “ringed” around with a wall.
Actually ring is “gyűrű” in Hungarian even now, so I see why they so easily kept the name. Also if I would want to say “your ring” or “ring-ed” you can write: “gyűrűd / gyűrűtt”.
Now look back at the table I gave you to see what this is connected with. Gy-R is the consonant pattern of the word here (already corresponds to GyőR) and Gy is in the same consonant pronounciation group with G and K here. To be honest all our “y”-ending consonants serve as a “gear-shifting” apparat in Hungarian so this could technically leave the group and make short and direct connections with “Ty” and its group, but we do not need to do so here. What we need is “K” and “G” here.
Change it to K so it becomes K-R:
KöR: circle
Kar: arm (did you ever hug anyone?)
Kert: garden
Kerítés: fence
Gurul: rolls
Göröngy: spherical clod of earth / stone (especially on road)
Király: king (“Kerülj” - “go around and defend”)
Környék: surroundings
etc.
Basically this is the baseword and base combination and it refers to circularity or at least “borderedness”. From this is formed the Gyűrű word for ring - quite understandably if you have seen a ring in your life.
What do you get if you are going in the other direction along the same consonant group? You get to use the “G” sound and you get “Grad” out of “KöRöD” or “GyűRűD”. At least from now on we see that this word refers to the circular walls around a city. In Hungarian, we started to use “Város”=city (“with-castle”) for the same purpose later on and “falu”=village (“with-walls) for the smaller settlements - but as you can see even the smaller should be walled otherwise it is just a “tanya” originally.
I hope I do not need to explain it long that “VáR” (castle) and “FaL” (wall) are both having the “upness” semantic in them because of what we have already explained above.
2. “Balaton”
: This one is thought to be of Illyrian origin according to 
Ludovicus Tubero
: 
„
cum lacu Peisone, quem incolae Balathonem dicunt. Est autem Báláikon, ita aquam perpetuo stagnantem Illyrici vocant, nobilis in terra Hungarica lacus . . .
“ so that they call
 the Peiso of Plinius
 as „Balathon“, because this is how Illiryans call water that always just stays”
First of all this is  disputed because of “Bál” appears at a lot of places because of the mythical person name. See for example “Bélkő” and such names both for geograpfical locations and places and smaller natural phenomena. Secondly let us suppose that Tubero knew this from some source and his data is right and look what we will get.
BaLaT(H)oN = B-L-T-(H)-N >> P-RL-D-M >> PáRLóDÓ(M) (“my evaporating (lake)”)
This is just one solution, but what counts is actually not the ending, but the beginning of the word. In the ending I am not sure, but the beginning makes sense in Hungarian with even less changes:
“Pállott, Kipállott” - we still use these for humidity and water that stays in one place and the sun makes it a humid, but already “out-evaporated”. One can also use this and similar words for other similar things in Hungarian - like if you come home from running and didn’t put out your pants someone will hopefully shout at you to not make your ass “bepállott” haha. In any ways. whenever you use this word you really think about humidity + not moving water. Like what you get if a lake is all surrounded by reeds, or even it becomes like a mudworld on its own. Currently only “Kisbalaton” looks like this anymore and it is now a natural reserve because of the plants and animals living there still. It can be that once the whole lake was much more similar like this all around.
3. Rajka: 
This is completely debated and unsure. It was originally “Rayka” or Villa Rajk. For me it sounds like old name for a person. Raj means swarm in Hungarian so it also might have been a dignity name or title instead of a name. The “-ka” ending is there to refer to youngness or cuteness or smallness generally. See “Gyula” which is from the word “GyúL / Gyúj” = spark / make fire. This is also old title and you also see them in place names. The first mentioning of this place is from the 13th century so it might have been slavic too, but I see nothing in this direction so far. You can maybe tell us what you think it relates to and what that word means or how it is.
3. Moson:
 This is interesting. It would never ever come to my mind anything else than this being Hungarian. If you say it, you get a very similar sounding word that we use for washed out places, wateryness or a “ravine”. I guess it is named like this because of the lot of water and rivers in the area around this place. I mean if you just hear this word that is what you associate. Also we had this as a person name too in medieval times and that is well known too. I think the personal name is just meaning that someone is from a place with a lot of ravine or if he/she was always washing something. In any ways, the “MoS” always means the “work that water does”. It can be washing, but you can also use this word if you want to explain that the water or the waves throw out something from the sea or a river to the side of it and you can use this word also if the water comes down from the “gutter” around your house to the wrong place (like onto the wall or basement of it) and makes a big hole (like this way: “kimosta az alapot a víz”). If you really want to translate what this “Moson” name means, I would say: “Area affected by water”. Just when we say it that does not sound this abstract ;-)
4. Komárom: 
I guess you want to connect this with “Komar” which means the small mosquito. I see that this is doubtful and there are many theories, but the reason why I can accept this connection is because of the nearby “Szőny”. What you call “Komar” we call “Szúnyog” in which “Szú” is the base that means “something piercy” so there can be two names in this area nearby each that might literally mean the same thing. What bugs me though is that “Komár” does not sound slavic at all because of its so much regular Scythian-style ending - despite even Russians have this word. Its “-ár” ending is actually still a proper inflection even in todays Hungarian and surely it seems that the baseword in this case is based on the “K-M” consonant pair, but interestingly we are not using this variant anymore for this word - or maybe we used to use it still some centuries ago along with the other word. It might be a good idea to look up the Czuczor dictionary or other older dictionaries for this word, but it can very likely be something that is actually both even before Slavic languages emerged and the second resettlement of ours too. The fact that Russians use it too means this term must had been travelled all around. It might be a Cuman word actually. What we still use is “könny” (“drop (tear)” ) and “Huny” (to hide, to nictitate, to form a thin shape) while it also means lightness (as in not heavy, but small and light: “könnyű”). Even closer is when we use it for things that store fluid: KaNNa, KaNcsó, etc. and this latter is quite universal old consonant-pattern as other languages also seem to sometimes use it. This sense one can understand that a “komár” is a small thing, that contains fluid, but we prefer to use “szúnyog” as you feel its piercing and that is what annoy you most - not the blood that it carries and you have lost for this little and light flying blood-tank. Also now that I think about it, very well it can be that this word refers to Cumans we call Kun and getting the proper old Hungarian inflexion telling that they are living there - but yes then there is “Szőny” which is then named differently and not because of Szőnyúg, but maybe Szőnyeg (carpet) or “Szövés” (weave - I hope you see how it connects to piercing in its meaning) it still worth it to think about the komár word itself as I find it fascinating because of its so proper suffix.
5. Csongrad, Nograd:
 These are Csongrád and Nógrád. They have nothing to do with grad as you suspect but with the “-ád” (“yours”) suffix and proper inflexion. These are coming from names of lords and getting the suffix (like Csongor >> Csongrád). These are actually documented many times. Completely Hungarian names. Visegrád is different, but these only got the ending because of inflexion.
6. Pilis:
 This one is really easy. Completely Hungarian and it was (and for some still is) the sacred initiation place for Hungarian Táltos people who did their “Pilisezés” here which is old nomadic ceremony. It is really old word that refers to a specific shape around your head that mages wear. It is near-baldness and comes from the word “fölösözés” that is “to remove that is unnecessary”. Later in the times of Christianity this was the original center for the Hungarian “Pálos” order that kept and saved through old traditions into later times. The area is still full of remains of Holy places and was inhabited from the earliest of times actually. To seperate the sacred baldness from just the one when you have lost your hair naturally we use a different word for the everyday baldness: “kopasz” - which I think is related to “kapar” (scratch) or “kapott” (got - like he got hit or damage) “kopog” (knocks / knocky). Surely in this case you are not “removing what is unnecessary”, but you have lost something without you ever wanted - or just cut it that small that it now knocks instead of making no sound when you touch it.
