First: I wish you would tell what name is translated as "Lord" in the heavy object texts and if it is consistently one of the names of some of the names.

Second I add some thoughts:
1.) Occam's razor:
- Just pointing away from sprin... khm... summe... khm.... fall ukraine huge counter offensive taking billions.
- Guy supposedly works for secret service and its psy-op literally, probably with halftruths about interesting phenomena.

2.) Guy mentioned "transdimensionality" being it a cloudy "whatever" but I can totally imagine situations where things could easily crash both for high-distance travel or some kind of interdimensional travel. That is honestly if someone is around our planet from somewhere else its either from our knows world among stars but so far away that other non-standard technology is needed to close the gap OR we are actually very close or in some sense distance is not a meaningful aspect, but we are in normal circumstances invisible (untouchable etc.). I have my own theories on that - really not with "dimensions", but a more information-theory approach to the universe where it is very easily possible. But I will not go bore all the people with endless abstractions.

3.) Honestly I CAN easily imagine ways a less advanced tech can overcome these if they are real. Funny enough one of the ways is to point cameras at them or literally try looking at them - they cannot seem to stand it. In Hungarian mythology we have the term "tündér" and I can tell you "tűnik" means "appears to be" but "eltűnik" means dis-appear (el- is the "away" part of the word). The word "tündököl" means "shining" and "tünemény" generally means something of very generalized that grabs your attention but see for a short period of time. Also Yurts have their "Tündök" which is the top opening where light can come in, smoke can go out and in night stars appear.

^^Generally speaking, because in Hungarian we often see "whole words appear when we say a related group of words" it is a speaking language. Likely many other old languages are speaking languages as I am no linguist, but it seems like in mythology these are "things that basically cannot tolerate that they are seen or that someone realize they are there", but also can be translated shiny. We - and generally I am sure other cultures always - also have other stuff like "matató ménkő" is name for "ball lightning" and some related phenomenoms.

Okay: I write short into to my model if anyone interested - just a rought estimate....
-------------------------------------------------

If you ask my personal opinion I do think some of the sightings are real, but I totally not consider them "from far away worlds". I consider all angels, demons, mythological "tündér"-like things or "lüdérc", etc whatevers in the same aspect as ufo/uap and even if there are maybe technological elements I honestly do not think they are from far away. I honestly think they totally coexists with us - not even in separate "dimension", but totally on the same level of existence as we do, but with different rule sets and completely orthogonal for most time. This is however based on my metaphysical model of the universe where there are no other building blocks just a "connection" between two things. No geometry is needed for this model at all so dimensions not make sense (but can be modelled as imaginary perception or measurement artifact) but for simplicity imagine things on a plane and imagine these "connection" atoms at little threads that connect two things. This is totally misleading as it projects the notion of these threads having length or position which is not true, but makes it easier to imagine. In this model there is no change at all: nothing ever change that started existing. How it models the whole universe then? Not by change, but by increment: that is new things - new threads - appear CONSTANTLY. Things that we perceive as "change" are virtual perceptions: That is if you see a ball fallng to the ground there is no such things as the ball's position somewhere changing no.... imagine that the new reality is spawned according to rules (and rules are also these threads) and all previous is still there - just we do not pay attention. Also talking about perception: it is not what we think it is. Perception is the atomic action of the universe between threads! You are a thread like that - that is your true self, the deep existence. And perception is literally creation. Perception is the first class citizen of reality not a little side effect of impulses in the brain. And when I say perception is creating: I literally mean creating a new thread between two things out of nothing - so not like writing or art, but literally God-like creation, just he is the first without which the whole model would fall apart - the thread that connects into itself and starts the creating process in the model. This is not something to "on-paper" prove, but if you pay close attention to the process of perception, you can realize it creates the perception - also as a side effect you can see the perception is directly tied to YOU and the PERCEIVED thing: Lets say a perception is a color (its more atomic than that, but again I simplify): We are in the same room, and we look at a red rose. I tell its red, you tell its red - we both know its called red what we perceive. But there is theoretically no way ever to make you KNOW what is my perception: maybe I see it how you see blue and learned it means red so we still can communicate! By this I do not mean color blindless or mixing up colors: I mean the perception that my self perceive atomically. If this confuses you I can tell maybe I perceive red as how you perceive a smell - but we both know its a color and because its a color that I see with my eyes I will move not move my nose or anything, I cannot "feel" it itching - or if I do I likely itch my eyes but with mixed up perception. Okay I honestly do not think we have to perceive that differently - all I say is that the information in the universe that appears by your perception is so intimate it is literally theoretically by information theory unpassable to someone else. It is something that only you get to know as information - and it also is tied to the perceived object. Also it is not that hard to realize the universe somehow get this perception somewhere spawned - something gets created that was not existing because of the perception. This I do not care if you believe or not - its not something I can prove with words or equations but I can ask you the reader to pay attention to what happens when you sense something. I mean there are things that you yourself can prove for yourself but cannot prove about you: like I cannot prove you exists and not just a thought of my mind in a dream - but I can prove that I do myself exists (only to myself not to you). Famously quoted cogito ego sum should mean this - but it is not really about "I think so I exists" but rather "I perceive that I exists". In this cases the best I can do is try to pinpoint directions what to pay attention to and you can prove it to yourself if you have an eye for it and see what is happening. So perceptions are creation and that is how threads appear. So what we perceive: then is not a reflection of reality but creates reality? Yes. Totally. But the key point is that those threads that create things like you can imagine gravity being a thread that creates new things by goind around this table or set of other threads and creates the perceptions of them being fallen towards the center of mass - it is nothing just a thread, but they are all connected to this one single thread that now I call gravity - this poses an opportunity in the chaos! Because until now this sounds like a big chaos.... but it is not. You choose what to create - there is choice in this and we choose what threads we create and that it connects what. The universe goes step by step and we see things so we create things - the early threads are really deep and we all know them, we are rather young (likely came from a connection of two threads that we actually call mom and dad - but its complicated). But okay this sounds chaotic.... until we realize that this is a bunch of possible intelligent / living (not intelligent as in IQ, but as in "can choose") things on a big endless plane and guess what you very fast learn to communicate. That is imagine an online website where you can draw dots, but cannot chat, cannot speak a language and cannot draw letters and there are bunch of random actors who create dots - its endless 2d plane..... Can you imagine if human use this they do communicate? sure they do! Of course for us its simpler now as we have a brain and we live in the "perceived world" which is not even jut an imagine of the real one, but created into the real as perception-threads.... But anyways there is such things as brain, material, animals, etc. just they are all virtual - but having all that created we can more easily solve the task of communicating on such a 2D drawing plane - in the beginning when there were only threads it was more ad-hoc, much more. Its like some thread just started ths "I look at the universe and perceive everything" and somehow it became a gravity rule. Around it we build things - you can put anything in place of gravity I am not even saying its so much early something, just an example... The thing is that rules are modelled the same way as humans - just choose to act dfferently, but otherwise the same. Everything is the same in this model - in a way the simplest thing imaginable, just so radically different so I have to slowly introduce. For example this model means we do know literally every existing thread / entity in the whole universe and personally "see" them.. but because that is not the perception - because perception is when we connect the two (or more!?) things that is a silent knowledge - we are not aware like we re aware of the perceptions we create. And how this again stopped being chaos? Through development of LANGUAGE. That is: when gravity started doing its things, ther others see what it is doing and the creations of gravity became part of the creations of others from that on - that is not by set-theory "part-of" relationship, but part of the decision what new threads to make. A world that we sense is thus akin to a language. Like words or sentences. And things work because we learned and "ad hoc created" rules while playing this game. And guess what: the language does not cover everything and likely there are competing languages and they just ignore each other - they have to otherwise they cannot work. There is no distance in this anywhere - distance is only in our "language" or our world - not on this deep level. So these langauges totally coexist "near each other" and totally not knowing. Not only that, but if we start to listen-in to an other language and see things others not see - that is grave danger and the developed language would fall apart - so we cannot see things we not meant to - we should not create threads to them - and if we do, then in a happy case we end up in mental hospital but worst case things can fall actually apart. So this model actually predicts that sightings of these kind of things that was the original topic - if they exists and not technological, but on this deeper level we perceive them by accident - cannot for long stay in "our world" otherwise it is not beneficial neither to them, neither to us. Also beware that because natural laws are just as well threads.... they might totally have different ones so likely we should not that much meet....


PS.: Btw I prefer reading the old texts often talking in symbols. In old times symbolic talk was much more alive than nowadays - or maybe not more alive, but because generally few people wrote at all, they all knew how to speak in language of symbols. So often things like how many eyes some angel has or something like that just tries to talk about how well he perceives the world or what aspects of the world and so on.

PS.: If someone pay enough attention this model is totally not the usual "esoteric bullshit". I know I simplified it a lot for this comment though. The thing is that however knowing this actually should encourage people NOT to try to really go far from the "usual" and NOT to seek out to much into this because the only reason why we really have a safe way to communicate is because we tackled this chaos ages ago - before humanity, before anything as a common big work - so its not good to lose that work or endanger it. Yet also would be good to study it. Of course this totally does not eliminate regular "tech"-based aliens and stuff....Those in this model then are part of our language / world and not on these deeper level then. So albeit the model predicts that IF someone has this deeper stuff, we can meet and they tolerate not to being much looked up or play huge part in our world - there are other ways on higher levels where there are ways to not disappear - but then they have to adhere to SOME common physics and common sense - maybe not yet invented tech, but still something - while in the other case not really and is more wild.
